# Plagiarism Detection in Arabic Documents

This project undertook the development of a plagiarism detection system for Arabic language to counter plagiarism, i.e. copying others work without proper acknowledgement, which has become one of the most threatening problem in academic community. The Web technology has led to an increased number of plagiarism cases in recent years, thereby making manual plagiarism detection a difficult (or almost impossible) task. Even though automatic plagiarism detection is not a novel problem as many plagiarism detection tools (e.g. Turnitin or iThenticate) have been developed, mostly such tools are available for English or other European languages; for Arabic language such tools are still very much under-developed. The existing plagiarism detection tools cannot be adapted for Arabic language because of its rich and complex morphological structure which makes language processing a challenging task. Research in automatic plagiarism detection for Arabic language is much demanding because Arabic is the fourth most widely spoken language in the world, and most Arab countries, including Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, have adopted the use of e-learning systems in their educational institutions. In an e-learning environment, where students have an access to the World Wide Web, the problem of plagiarism can be even more threatening than before. This calls for serious attention to develop state-of-the-art tools to automatically detect plagiarism in Arabic, and also help students and researchers avoid plagiarizing others work.

Even though Arabic Natural Language Processing (ANLP) has gained increasing importance in recent years, research in this area is still in its infancy. ANLP in general and development of Arabic language processing tools in particular is one of the most prioritized areas in the current National Science, Innovative and Technology Plan (cf. Language Resources: Strategic Technology Program). To this endeavor, the current project made two most obvious and tangible contributions. One, a sizeable Arabic plagiarism corpus is created, which can be used by researchers for the development and evaluation of plagiarism detection system (e.g. in a shared task competition). Second, plagiarism detection software/tool is developed, which can be used, for example, by teachers verifying the originality of students work.

We believe the developed system will help protect academic integrity in particular and authorship in general.  We also expect that this research will have a significant positive impact in the society as a whole. This will help not only students and researchers in the academia better understand what the plagiarism is, thereby promoting original research and improving education quality, this will also help protect the intellectual property of the Arabic authors in other publishing sectors, for example online journalism. The accomplished project is expected to provide a potential inroad for futuristic research in many ways. The limitation of the accomplished research is that it focuses only on monolingual textual plagiarism, whereas in fact, plagiarism can have many facets. One legitimate extension to this project could be multilingual plagiarism detection also taking other modalities like images and graphs into account. 

## Contributors:

### Investigators

Kamal Jambi (PI), Muazzam Siddiqui (Co-I), Imtiaz Khan (Co-I)

### Research Assistant/Associates

Salma Elhaj, Abobakar Bagais, Muhammad Aqib, Muhammad Imran, Fahd Bahazaq
